It almost cements this idea in my head
that I'm an idiot.
If everyone else can read this,
why can't I?
Title: Plain language with good structure is important
And an example of that is
I asked a colleague
for this same scenario with procurement
to help me kind of read it through
and say like:
‘Am I? Am I so dumb that I'm not getting this?’
Like, are you taking the information
from this that I'm missing?
And he then started the process.
We collectively have started the process
to create our own document,
to make it easy
so that if you don't have experience
with this,
you have somewhere to go that's
easy to read and accessible regardless
of your knowledge level.
Well, based on people's reading levels
and diverse backgrounds
I just think having documents
that are plain English, accessible,
will ensure that the message
that you're communicating has been sent
and received and understood
so that people can act in the way
that you would like them to act.
I think that if they had...
and it makes it much more enjoyable,
you've got that stakeholder,
you've got that engagement with people
because it's easy to access the material.
It's easy then to want to get involved.
So particularly
a work thing, I'll get sent a report
or a PowerPoint presentation.
You're sending it to me because
you probably want something from me.
So if the document is accessible,
then straight away I open it or action it.
So you're not waiting on me,
and then I can give you what it is
that you want from me.
But if you haven't given me what I need,
then I can't help you with your part.
So it's like, help me help you.
Help me, help you, you know,
and that makes it easy for everybody.
And it's better than retrofitting
I've got great comprehension.
I’m a really good reader.
But when it's using big words
for the sake of using big words
or it's not clear in the message
that kind of fluffs
about and it’s all in shades of grey and
it just makes it
particularly difficult
to know what you can and can't do.
And there's always that kind of fear that
in the back of your mind,
if you're not following that, that could
potentially be that, you know,
that could have consequences for you.
So there's always that kind of weird fear
that if you're not retaining information
that you need to be
on the right side of the rules.
That is, it's quite stressful.
And again, back to just
makes you feel really dumb.
I think there's a couple of things.
It's JAWS will read things out
exactly as they are.
So when people are using acronyms
or they're shortening words,
it'll read it out that way.
It won't say, it'll spell it out
or thinks it's a word.
So do I.
Sounds a bit exotic, so better not to use
acronyms or shortening things.
Use the whole word.
So government loves technical
jargon or acronyms.
Apparently we are too busy to say
talent acquisition.
We have to say TA
or we're too busy to say,
you know, we've got all these little terms
that we use
and we're far too busy
to actually use those two words.
We've always got to shorten everything.
And particularly if you knew when you
started a new job with a new organisation,
they’re like QNZ that FXZ that,
you know, like it's a little different
you’re like ‘What? What? What? I
need a decoder ring
and I don't have a memory issue
and I don't have a brain
processing issue and I read and write
English and I grew up in Australia.
So if I'm struggling,
how is anybody else going to cope?
And we're a really diverse workforce.